the movie begins in a futuristic world mankind
went through a devastating war a century earlier
the war only left two peninsulae suitable for
inhabitants one of the peninsulae works under
a legislative body called the collective the
collective has set extreme rules and laws to
make sure such a war does not emerge again the
citizens of the peninsula are called the members
and the collective monitors and controls all of
the members actions with a futuristic approach
to solving the problem everyone in the peninsula
is made mentally stable all emotions and diseases
have been eradicated people live an automated life
they do not talk to each other unless they have to
the concept of friendship and relationship is
gone and any show of emotion is considered illegal
marriage is non-existent in any form of
sexual activity is contrary to society's rules
babies are born strictly through artificial
insemination on the other hand no one knows
what is in the other peninsula people assume
that primitive human emotions are allowed there
silas is a member of the peninsula he too is
mentally stabilized and is void of any emotions he
works as an illustrator at atmos when silas walks
out of his futuristic home we see that everyone
around him is in white attire large skyscrapers
spread throughout the city and everyone seems
to be automated as per usual he walks into his
workplace a voice announces a disease called
the switch down syndrome more commonly called sos
it is a condition in the members of the peninsula
where their mental stabilization stops working
and they start to get their emotions back
it has four stages and is considered fatal by the
collective the members are daily reminded of the
effects of sos via an announcement nia isela's
colleague and a fellow member of the peninsula
that day at lunch the members eat in their outdoor
cafeteria while they engage in a conversation
about work nia stays especially quiet while
returning home that night silas comes across two
guards restraining a man named david a woman who
is also restrained screams david's name in dismay
the two are suffering from sos and have gained
their emotions back they are being taken into a
facility called den defective emotional neuropathy
dn was established by the collective to hold in
the patient suffering from sos while not many
people know of what occurs inside the place it is
rumored that the people from the fourth stage get
killed mercilessly as the stage is beyond healing
the display of emotions unsettles silas he then
comes back to his apartment and we get a full view
of it it doesn't have any decoration or furniture
and is highly modernized to pass his time silas
plays a futuristic puzzle game the following
day silas listens to the news which reports
that david and his partner were arrested for being
engaged in sexual activities as silas and his team
work that day a man jumps from the top of the
building to commit suicide the team watches the
dead body and talks about it coldly just then
silas notices signs of human emotions in nia
her hands are tightened and she seems nervous he
notices the oddness but doesn't think much of it
later they are in an auditorium watching a
presentation where silas cannot stop looking
at nia at night he eats quickly and seems to be
enjoying his food he doesn't play with puzzles
either he is beginning to go out of his automated
personality he dreams of his trying to commit
suicide and wakes up in distress and hits his head
this is the first time he has ever had a nightmare
the following day he goes to the doctor where he
meets a man named jonas who is in level 2 of sos
the doctor checks silas and it turns out that
he has level 1 sos he asked the doctor if he has
to go to the den but the doctor assures him
that cure at level one is easy and possible
at lunch silas again keeps staring at nia he seems
to be observing her facial features silas gets his
medication for sos and takes it at night while
listening to a voice narrating the effects and
causes of sos the voice adds that people with
the last stage of sos stage 4 are taken to den
and are electrocuted for showing emotions the
sick will go through a pain-free death scenario
the following day at work silas
cannot concentrate and is distressed
he even cries while working and tries to hide
it from his colleagues he follows nia around
work at all times the next morning he switches
his work with a colleague to get closer to nia
as she explains the work to him he doesn't
seem to concentrate and keep staring at her
silas stays late after work and listens
to nia's recorded voice on her computer
he has begun falling in love with her the
next day silas and his team are in a meeting
when he accidentally drops a mug of coffee he
admits that he is suffering from level 1 sos
the group collectively decides that silas should
stay as far as possible while working so that
the others feel more comfortable after work as
nia leaves for her apartment silas follows her
nia catches him in the act but silas in
turn questions her if she has sos too
he tells her about him noticing her demure
change when the guy committed suicide that week
nia insists she is fine and leaves the following
day at work silas stays as far as possible from
everyone but doesn't stop looking at nia the two
act like the conversation yesterday never happened
both of them work late that day nia goes to the
bathroom and silas follows her he gets into her
bathroom stall and goes inside the two are close
when they touch each other for the first time
silas feels nia's face in awe nia reveals that
she is at sos for a year now she never went to
the doctor because she was afraid of being sent
to the den she then tells him that their being
together is too risky so they can't meet like
this again the two get up and finally kiss it is
now the next day and everyone has left the office
except the two nia again leaves for the restroom
and silas follows the two hold on to each other
but are too afraid to move on with a relationship
they kiss again from the following day they
start sneaking into the restroom every day
they laugh talk and kiss the two are falling
in love one day atmos's manager leonard comes
into the restroom while the two are together nia
stays hidden while silas goes out and talks to him
as it turns out someone had reported silas's
strange behavior to leonard he warned silas of
the consequences of sneaking around and leaves the
two talk on their way back home and silas tells
her that he will look for another job to not get
caught so the next day silas resigns from his job
a man named dominic replaces him as silas gets
a new job at a nursery at night while picking up
medicines silas meets jonas again the two talk
for a while and jonas reveals that he is a part
of a support group with people who are suffering
from sos he offers to help silas if he needs it
soon silas visits the support group and meets
its members namely bess peter thomas gill max
and alice there he finds out that half the
patients brought to den commit suicide as the
staff encourages them some even watch them kill
themselves as opposed to electoral restraints
suicide seems more preferable to everyone silas is
shocked later that night nia knocks on his door he
brings her inside and she breaks down crying she
had missed him too much one thing leads to another
and the two end up having sex from the following
day the two meet every night at silas's apartment
silas has completely stopped taking his medication
the two are beyond happy with their lifestyle that
is until one morning they hear the announcement
that a medication to treat sos has been made
the announcer suggests everyone who has
been diagnosed with sos to take the medicine
sos of any level can be treated with it scared
that they will not be able to feel anymore
silas and nia go to the support group they
have decided to run away to the other peninsula
best tells them that it is not a good
idea but they have made their decision
they decide to leave in three days with jonas's
help however nia gets a conception call from the
collective they want her to artificially bear
a child if the doctor checks her blood results
they will diagnose her with sos scared she tells
this to silas who asks her to meet him at the
clinic after her appointment at the clinic
the doctor informs nia that she is pregnant
silas sees two guards taking her away but
he cannot do anything they take her to dn
silas frantically asks jonas for help who tells
him to go home and wait for a couple of hours
bess who is also a worker at den frees nia
and takes her to the rest of the support group
they make her dress up as fast as she can best
then explains to her that a patient named eva
had killed herself last night bess has changed her
records to nia's so now nia can live freely as eva
nia runs away to silas's apartment but is
surprised when she doesn't find him there
meanwhile silas is at work where it is
announced in the news that max had reported bess
jonas and gilead so now all three of them were
cured and void of emotions he then runs to dn's
headquarters and asks a worker about nia he
informs him of her death silas is devastated
he goes blank and starts having a panic attack nia
goes searching for him when he doesn't return back
to the apartment meanwhile silas climbs on top of
atmos's building to commit suicide as he is about
to jump he changes his decision when he gets back
to his apartment he is greeted by a worried nia
she immediately notices the mark on his neck
silas has been cured of sos nia asks him why he
did that to which he replies that he thought she
was dead the cure only takes effect in six hours
so he only has one more hour before his emotions
go away nia is still pregnant so she asks silas
to fight the cure the two still decide to go
through the plan to run away the next morning
silas remembers that he loved her but doesn't feel
it anymore he tells her to get dressed to go to
the train as they had decided in the train nia is
disappointed as silas sits two seats away from her
nia reminisces of all the good times with silas
just then he sits on the seat beside her and holds
her hand suggesting that he will soon recover and
gain his emotions back subscribe for more videos
like this turn on notifications and leave a like
to help the channel out thank you for watching